# ROS Folder

This folder (i.e. `/ros`) contains all of the confguration files and packages used by [simulation.launch.py](../simulation.launch.py) in the main simulation folder.

## Table of contents

- [ROS Folder](#ros-folder)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Folder structure](#folder-structure)
    - [Packages](#packages)
    - [Configuration files](#configuration-files)

## Folder structure

This folder is organized into two parts:
1. The `packages` folder, where all of our custom-made ROS2 packages are located.
2. Configuration files in `./`, which are used by the simulation launch file.

### Packages

Packages contains different parts of the simulation wrapped inside Colcon packages, which for the most part is just Python code made executable by a `launch.py` file. The main code for these packages sit in the `main.py` file located at: `package_name/package_name/main.py`. A total of 4 packages are used by our simulation, these are:

- [**fire_detection**](./packages/fire_detection/): Thermal camera, which detects changes in heat and can therefore detect fire or (danger to the robot in general) based on this data.
- [**logical_audio_sensor**](./packages/logical_audio_sensor/): Audio detection by a Logical Audio Sensor implemented on FLIP itself.
- [**object_detection**](./packages/object_detection/): Detection algorithm, making use of YOLO and OpenCV to detect certain objects and humans.
- [**path_planning**](./packages/path_planning/): Exploration algorithm for planning a route trough the simulation for FLIP the robot.

Each of these follow the same code structure in `main.py` that is generally regarded as best-practice in a ROS2 project.

### Configuration files

The configuration files inside the `ros/` folder are used for a multitude of things. All of these files are written in **YAML** (YML File format) and are read by certain ROS2 packages that are used for the most part as building blocks inside the simulation. 

Besides the pre-built ROS2 packages, the bridges that connect Gazebo output with ROS2, are also specified inside `ros/`. Below a complete overview of the different files inside this folder:

- [**ros_bridges**](./ros_bridges.yaml): specifies bridges (data communication) between Gazebo and ROS2 so data can be received and processed by individual ROS2 nodes.
- [**slam_params**](./slam_params.yaml): parameters used by the SLAM `slam_toolbox` package for generating a 2D occupancy grid used by the exploration algorithm in [path_planning](./packages/path_planning/).
- [**nav2_costmap_params**](./nav2_costmap_params.yaml): parameters used by the SLAM `nav2_costmap_2d` package for generating a costmap based on the occupancy grid generated by `slam_toolbox`